[docs] "What's new in Svelte" March newsletter (#7293)
sveltejs/svelte: site/content/blog/2022-03-01-whats-new-in-svelte-march-2022.md

---
title: "What's new in Svelte: March 2022"

> description: "Shadow endpoints and update detection come to SvelteKit"

Reviewer: I think we should remove mentions of Shadow endpoints - they're just called `endpoints` now: https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/issues/3532#issuecomment-1029277110

Reviewer 2: And now they're "page endpoints" :smile:  https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/routing#endpoints-page-endpoints

> description: "Shadow endpoints and update detection come to SvelteKit"

Reviewer 3: There's a discussion about whether we name this "Shadow endpoints" or not. We should adjust the title according to the outcome.

author: Daniel Sandoval
authorURL: https://desandoval.net
---

Some long-requested features have been added to SvelteKit this month... including shadow endpoints! This change in how `load` functions makes it easier to fetch data required for basic pages, redirect from POST responses and handle 404s and other errors.

> 

Reviewer: There's a new Svelte Summit coming up in April that I think makes sense to mention here (though I am a bit biased! 😅). As per usual the website is here: https://sveltesummit.com

More on that and other new features and fixes below!

## New across Svelte and Language Tools
- Any highlights from the Svelte Changelog? Feels like it was mostly bugfixes
...

> - svelte.dev is [now available in Russian](https://ru.svelte.dev/)! If you'd like to contribute to the community transaltions, check out [sveltejs-translations/content-server](https://github.com/sveltejs-translations/content-server)

Reviewer 3: I think it existed for quite some time already, but they adjusted their workflow to mimic the docs API that Svelte currently uses instead - but that API might not be for long anymore, all in flux honestly. So not sure how we could rephrase that.

Reviewer: Yes the Russian website has been around for a very long time, the new thing is the API, as @dummdidumm mentioned here

Author: Going to take this out, then.

> - Accessing properties in markups has been improved in the Svelte language tools ([105.12.0](https://github.com/sveltejs/language-tools/releases/tag/extensions-105.12.0)) - working around some known issues with autocomplete ([#538](https://github.com/sveltejs/language-tools/issues/538), [#786](https://github.com/sveltejs/language-tools/issues/786) and [#1302](https://github.com/sveltejs/language-tools/issues/1302))

Reviewer 4: I think we don't have to reference 786 here. That's an implementation PR related to this new improvement instead of a known issue. People interested in the implementation detail could still find it through the release note. 

Another somewhat related to language tools that might be worth noting is that [svelte-atom](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte-atom) is back 🚀. Kudos to the effort by rixo.

## What's new in SvelteKit
- Shadow endpoints significantly decrease the boilerplate needed when loading a page ([Issue](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/issues/3532), [PR](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/3679), [Docs](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/routing#endpoints))
- Application versioning and update detection support lets you determine what to do when a route fails to load after an app update ([Issue](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/issues/87), [PR](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/3412), [Docs](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/configuration#version))

**Breaking Changes**
- The `target` option is no longer available. Instead, the `init` script hydrates the its `parentNode` ([#3674](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/3674))

> - App-level types now live in the `SvelteKit` namespace ([#3670](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/3670))

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- App-level types now live in the `App` namespace which allows you to type global types like `Stuff` or `Session` ([#3670](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/3670))
```

---
title: "What's new in Svelte: March 2022"
description: "Svelte Summit Spring is coming... and page endpoints are here!"
author: Daniel Sandoval
authorURL: https://desandoval.net
---

Just announced: [Svelte Summit Spring](https://www.sveltesummit.com/) will be taking place on April 30, 2022. The 5th Virtual Svelte Conference is [looking for speakers](https://www.sveltesummit.com/#speakers) and [sponsors](https://www.sveltesummit.com/sponsors)... so it's time to dust off those proposals!

> Also, some long-requested features were added to SvelteKit this month... including page endpoints! This change in how `load` functions makes it easier to fetch data required for basic pages, redirect from POST responses and handle 404s and other errors.

Reviewer 3: "This change in how ..." - I have a hard time figuring out what the sentence means. I'm no native speaker, but I feel it's grammatically incorrect

Reviewer 5: Also, some long-requested features were added to SvelteKit this month... including page endpoints!

This change in `load` functions can make it easier to:
 - fetch data required for basic pages
 - redirect from POST responses
 - handle 404s and other errors

Reviewer 6: I think a part of the difficulty in reading it probably comes from the fact that we're used to saying `load functions` because `load` is actually a `function` exported from pages,

From what I understood, what it's trying to say is "how the load function ~functions~ works", I might've misread it

Reviewer 5: > I think a part of the difficulty in reading it probably comes from the fact that we're used to saying `load functions` because `load` is actually a `function` exported from pages,
> 
> From what I understood, what it's trying to say is "how the load function ~functions~ works", I might've misread it

Ah yes, in which case it might say "how `load` functions work"

More on that and other new features and fixes below!

> ## What's new in SvelteKit

Reviewer 2: - new searchable multipage docs with type definitions and hoverable code examples
- option to setup Playwright for testing (https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/4056)
